= Ultimate TODO List for Mandatory Greek Army Service =

== Background ==

* I started my military army service in January 2021, at [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Litochoro|Litochoro]] - quite cold there.
* I wanted to join KEPYES (the computer science batallion of the army and thus),
  had to gather some relevant certification for it.

== To prepare ==

* Send to KEPYES your application (postmaster@army.gr)
* Make bootable persistent encrypted USB drive
    * GPG key
    * dotfiles
    * Pass
* Update your passwords list - SD card
* Measure your PowerBank capacity - How many times could it charge your phone --> _6_
* Revive your NAS storage so that you have access to it while away
* Restrict card withdrawals from your banks - in case cards get stolen
* Strip unnecessary cards from your wallet
    * Leave them at home

== FAQ ==

* Is it legal to continue working while doing my military service?
    * YES. See the army documents
    * https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&tl=en&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foroepilisis.gr%2Fen%2Fstratefsi-misthoton%2F

== Items to collect/buy ==

* Πάτοι Φαρμακίου ή σιλικόνης - Συνήθως οι δεύτεροι είναι λίγο πιο ψηλοί, οπότε
  πάρε ένα νούμερο μεγαλύτερες αρβύλες για να χωράει το πόδι σου μαζί με τους
  πάτους)
* Γυαλιστικό για Αρβύλες
* Βελόνα και κλωστή
* Ωτοασπίδες
* Κρεμάστρες για ρούχα
* Sleeping bag
* Ξυραφάκια
  * NOTE: The [[https://www.skroutz.gr/c/1746/xyrafakia.html?keyphrase=safety+razor|safety razor]] has worked well for me
* 2 Powerbanks
* Κλειδιά σπιτιού
* Pin for sim cards
* Sleeping mask
  * NOTE: Nah, don't needed / they'll laugh at you
* Disposable phone
* Slippers
  * NOTE: Plastic, with thick sole to use it in the shower. The ones they gave
    me got destroyed after week one.
* USB Cables and Chargers

* Βαλίτσα - Not too big, should fit under the bunk bed
* Μωρομάντιλα
* Χαρτομάντηλα
* Χαρτί Υγείας - 2 or 3 rolls
* Νυχοκόπτης
* XXX Μικρός φακός
  * NOTE: Nah, didn't really needed, and also the phone flashlight also does
    the job
* Μαξιλάρι
  * NOTE: Nah, not fussed about it, slept without one
* Μαξιλαροθήκη
* Σεντόνι
  * NOTE: Some people used one so that the sleeping bag doesn't come in
    contact with the bed; Nah, not worth it.
* Μεμβράνες για κάλλους
  * NOTE: So much needed. Take [[https://www.skroutz.gr/c/2444/Epithemata-Podion/m/7426/Compeed.html|compeed]]; they are worth it.
* Αντισηπτικό
* Hansaplast
* Άδειες σακούλες - for dirty laundry etc.
* XXX Πολύμπριζο
* Keychain
* Pneumocast pills

  * NOTE: Probably you don't need this.

* Paracetamol
* Αλοιφή για τα χέρια
* Λαιμουδιέρα: Κάλυμμα για το λαιμό

=== Consumables ===

* Νεσεσέρ
* Σαμπουάν
  * Put it in small bottles; worked very well.
* Σαπούνι
  * The army provides a cup holder for this.
* Σφουγγάρι
* Αποσμητικό
* Οδοντόκρεμα
* Οδοντόβουρτσα
* Αποσμητικό
* Αφρός Ξυρίσματος
* After-Shave
* Απορρυπαντικό για πλύσιμο στο χέρι

* Μπλοκάκι + Στυλό
* Καραμέλες λαιμού για το βήχα
* Ταλκ
* Λουκέτα (Μικρά, Μεσαία, 2 Μεγάλα, 1 με μακρύ λαιμό)

=== Clothes ===

* Εσώρουχα
  * NOTE: The more the better. You don't know when your next laundry will
    be.
* Πράσινες Κάλτσες (μάλλινες)
* Φανέλες (Πράσινες Στρατού)
* Ισοθερμικά
  * UPDATE: Maybe take one, just for the cold nights, otherwise, didn't really
    use it.
* 2 Πετσέτες μπάνιου
* Κάλτσες
  * NOTE: The more the better
* 1 Παντελόνι στρατιωτικό
  Was actually worth it since I tore 1/2 that they gave me.

== Certificates for KEPYES ==

* University Certificate(s)
* Language Certificates
* Recommendation Letters
* Proof of employment
* CV

For more: https://katataxi.army.gr/el/content/enimerosi-opliton-ep

== Documents to Gather ==

* Σημείωμα Κατάταξης
* XXX Αντίγραφο Ποινικού Μητρώου τύπου Α (αν το
  "χαρτί" σου έχει ένδειξη ΥΕΑ)
  * NOTE: You don't need this nowadays
* Ακτινογραφία Θώρακα - από δημόσιο νοσοκομείο
* Letter stating you have an allergy (in case they start ranting about the
  sleeping bag)
  * NOTE: Wasn't really needed. Everyone had, and they expected you to have a
    sleeping bag
* Σημείωμα Κατάταξης
* Αστυνομική Ταυτότητα
* Ατομικό Βιβλιάριο Νοσηλείας (το μικρό, λεπτό, που γράφει τα εμβόλια)
* Πιστοποιητικό Οικογενειακής Κατάστασης.

== One day before ==

* Charge all your devices
  * Kindle
  * NOKIA
  * Main phone
* Make sure NOKIA works with your nano sim cards
* Fill phone storage with podcasts and books
* Take a picture of the things you leave behind

== Right before entering ==

* Put your SIM card at the disposable phone - in case they get strict about
  using a phone that has a camera


== Telephone Numbers ==

* ΓΕΣ: 2106555911

  * Μπορείς να ζητήσεις την Διεύθυνση Οπλιτών Θητείας
  * θα σε συνδέσουν - έχουν 3 εσωτερικά τηλέφωνα αλλά κανένα δε δούλεψε για μένα
  * NOTE: Quite helpful the chaps working there.

* Γενική Γραμματεία Προστασίας του Πολίτη: 2131510-139,104,174
* Τηλέφωνα στρατολογίας: https://www.stratologia.gr/el/epikoinwnia

== Related ==

* Android app that should come in handy: [[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.YRH.PackPoint&hl=en|Packpoint]]
* Greek military ranks in English: [[greek-military-ranks]]
* Greek military formations in English: [[greek-military-formations]]

Also worth checking but some of the items may not be relevant anymore:

* http://www.netmode.ntua.gr/%7Egkoutep/myarmy/
* https://katataxi.army.gr/el/content/ayta-poy-prepei-na-ehei-o-neosyllektos-0

=== Military service forums ===

A bit outdated but here you go...

* https://forum.thiteia.org/index.php
* http://www.ellinikos-stratos.com/forum
