= Secure Programming Cookbook =
:book:

Link: https://www.amazon.com/Secure-Programming-Cookbook-Cryptography-Authentication/dp/0596003943

TL;DR: A bit of old-fashioned. Not worth reading further.

== Chapter 1 ==

=== 1.1 Sanitizing the Environment ===

* Environment variables are inherited from the parent process
* Generally, you should not specify a filename and then rely on these variables
  (PATH, LD_LIBRARY_PATH) for determining the full path. Instead, you should
  always use absolute paths to known locations.
* Use `environ` (from `unistd.h`) global variable and `putenv`, `getenv` on
  Linux (from `stdlib.h`)
* Darwin does not use ELF (Executable and Linking Format) for its executable
  format
* The PATH environment variable is used by the shell and some of the `exec*()`
  family of standard C functions to locate an executable if a path is not
  explicitly specified. The search path should never include relative paths,
  especially the current directory as denoted by a single period. To be safe,
  you should always force the setting of the PATH environment variable to
  `_PATH_STDPATH`, which is defined in `paths.h`. This value is what the shell
  normally uses to initialize the variable, but an attacker or naïve user could
  change it later

=== 1.3 Dropping Privileges in setuid Programs ===

On all Unix systems each process has

- `Real`, `Effective`, `Saved` UID
- `Real`, `Effective`, `Saved` GID

Normally when a process is executed, the effective, real and saved user and
group IDs are all set to the real user and group ID of the process's parent
respectively. However when the `setuid` bit is set on the executable the
effective and saved user IDs are set to the user ID that *owns the file*!

In general the effective user or group ID for a process may be changed as long
as the new ID is the same as either the real or the saved ID.

Ancillary groups are inherited by a process from its parent process and *they
can only be altered by a process with superuser privileges*.

== Chapter 4 - Symmetric Cryptography Fundamentals ==

There are two classes of symmetric primitives, both of utmost importance:

* *SEA* - *Symmetric Encryption Algorithms* for data secrecy
* *MAC* - *Message Authentication Codes* for ensuring that if someone tampers with data
  while in transit, the tampering will be detected.
