= Self Discipline: Why Self Discipline is Lacking in Most and How to Unleash it Now =

Link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28947002-self-discipline-mindset

TL;DR: Quite an easy book to read. Should take you ~2hrs and give you small
hints on how to achieve your goals, hopefully.

== Easy TODOs ==

* Give up your seat
* Do a Chore right now
* Make a Big Change to Your Routine
* Choose Stairs over Elevator

== Motivate and Nurture yourself ==

For instance, if you have lost 5 pounds, then instead of treating yourself to a
piece of cheesecake, you could buy a dress that shows off your new, slimmer
figure. In so doing, you will definitely motivate yourself not to give up on
your goal

Stabilize the Glucose Concentration in Your Body

* Hunger diminishes self-discipline
* Steady  sleep schedule ~7:00/day
* Overcome stress by Sleeping well AND exercising regularly

== Work on overcoming Temptations ==

For instance, if you are disciplining yourself to stop smoking, you could stop
meeting your smoking buddies (people with whom you smoke frequently) for awhile
until you have gained complete restraint, or you could stop visiting the spots
where you smoked frequently

Another helpful technique for overcoming a temptation is to envision yourself
resisting it. For instance, if you want to control your intake of sugary treats,
you could visualize yourself picking up a candy bar, enjoying its aroma, and
then putting it away. Do it several times until you feel confident you’ll do the
same when a real candy bar actually appears in front of you. This method can
help you to gain control over your emotions since these tend to be very volatile
whenever you are faced by a temptation.

Giving too much thought to whatever is tempting you can make it pretty hard for
you to overcome it. Don’t think too much about how much you are missing out when
you don’t succumb to your temptations. Instead, you need to distract yourself as
a way of ensuring you don’t put too much focus on the temptation and what you
are missing.

Do Not Wait to Feel like It, Dump All Your Excuses
