= Talking to Strangers =
:book:

* Author: Malcolm Gladwell
* Link: https://www.amazon.com/Talking-Strangers-Should-about-People/dp/0316478520

== Notes ==

* The language of the Aztecs had a `reverential mode`.
    * A royal figure such as Montezuma would speak in a kind of code, according
      to a cultural tradition in which the powerful projected their status
      through an elaborate false humility. The word in _Nahuatl_ for a _noble_, the
      historian Matthew Restall points out, is all but identical to the word for
      child. When a ruler such as Montezuma spoke of himself as small and weak,
      in other words, he was actually subtly drawing attention to the fact that
      he was esteemed and powerful.
* The Mountain Climber was one of the most talented people at one of the most
  sophisticated institutions in the world. _Yet he’d been witness three times to humiliating betrayal—first by Fidel Castro, then by the East Germans, and then, at CIA headquarters itself, by a lazy drunk. And if the CIA’s best can be misled so completely, so many times_, then what of the rest of us?
* Chamberlain was acting on the same assumption that we all follow in our
  efforts to make sense of strangers. We believe that the information gathered
  from a personal interaction is uniquely valuable. You would never hire a
  babysitter for your children without meeting that person first. Companies
  don’t hire employees blind. They call them in and interview them closely,
  sometimes for hours at a stretch, on more than one occasion. They do what
  Chamberlain did: they look people in the eye, observe their demeanor and
  behavior, and draw conclusions
* Take a look at the following word, and fill in the two blank letters. Do it quickly, without thinking.

  * G L _ _

  * This is called a word-completion task. Psychologists commonly use it to test
    things such as memory.

* We think we can easily see into the hearts of others based on the flimsiest of
  clues. We jump at the chance to judge strangers. We would never do that to
  ourselves, of course. We are nuanced and complex and enigmatic. But the
  stranger is easy.
* The point of Levine’s research was to try to answer one of the biggest puzzles
  in human psychology: why are we so bad at detecting lies?
* But we’re much worse than chance at correctly identifying the students who are
  lying. We go through all those videos, and we guess—“true, true, true”—which
  means we get most of the truthful interviews right, and most of the liars
  wrong. We have a default to truth: our operating assumption is that the people
  we are dealing with are honest.
* That is Levine’s point. You believe someone not because you have no doubts
  about them. Belief is not the absence of doubt. You believe someone because
  you don’t have enough doubts about them
