= Wait but Why =

* The Story of Us: https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/story-intro.html
    * Why do humans and societies act the way they act

        * The Primitive and the Higher Mind: https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/fire-light.html
        * Forming Giants: Humans taking the emergence tower elevator, based on the
        circumstances at hand: https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/giants.html
        * ?? : https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/09/stories.html

* Social-Acceptance-Seeking Mammoths and The Authentic Voice: https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/06/taming-mammoth-let-peoples-opinions-run-life.html

== Characters ==

* The `Wise One` (Your Rational Self)
* The Instant-Gratification `Monkey`
* The `Monster`
* The Social Survival `Mammoth` - Fear of being disliked
* My `Authentic Voice`
* The `Giant`: Masses of people bundled together, acting as one

----

* Individual Life Form -> `Colony of Ants`, `Tribe of Humans`, `a Single Spider`
* Emergence Tower



For the human genetic line, sustenance was a survival requirement, so we evolved
to be hungry. Reproduction was a survival requirement, so we evolved to be
horny. Not falling off a cliff was a survival requirement, so we evolved to be
scared of heights. `Tribe well-being` was a survival requirement, so we evolved to
be tribal.

Unlike spiders and ants, whose independent life form never changes emergence
floors, humans are a kind of hybrid creature that inhabits a range along
Emergence Tower, not a single floor.

When my tortoise Winston is scared, he tucks his head and his limbs into his
shell. `When humans are scared, they form giants`. The giant is the human
tortoise shell. `Typically, the bigger the giant that threatens a group of
people, the bigger a giant they’ll form in response.`

`In each case, human dickishness is running at full force—the thing that’s
changing is the size of the giants that are being dicks to each other.`

The evolutionary sweet spot probably wouldn’t have been kindness or empathy or
compassion or cooperation—it would have been `to have these traits on a toggle
switch. To be micro-kind and macro-ruthless.`

So Moochie’s behavior is just a reflection of his particular motivations and the
environment around him. If you want to change his behavior, you have to change
one of the equation’s independent variables—Moochie’s nature or his environment.
If we had a brain-machine interface, we might be able to change his
nature—rewiring Moochie’s software so that dopamine hits are triggered by, say,
the high arts instead of by gorging on food.
